The Project Gutenberg EBook of To Save Earth, by Edward W. Ludwig

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: To Save Earth

Author: Edward W. Ludwig

Illustrator: Virgil Finlay
             Van Dogen

Release Date: September 16, 2016 [EBook #53059]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TO SAVE EARTH ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                             TO SAVE EARTH

                          BY EDWARD W. LUDWIG

                       ILLUSTRATED BY VAN DOGEN

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Worlds of Tomorrow October 1963
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




               The life of everyone on Earth depended on
            their sanity ... which they had long ago lost!


For more than six years the silver rocket was like a tomb buried at
the Earth's center. It wore the blackness of interstellar space for a
shroud, and ten thousand gleaming stars were as the eyes of hungry,
waiting worms.

Five of the inhabitants of the rocket moved like zombies, stone-faced
and dull-eyed, numb even to their loneliness.

The sixth inhabitant did not move at all. He sat silent and unseeing.
The sixth inhabitant was mad.

There had been times when all of them--mad and near-mad--had forgotten
that they hurtled through space, that they were men and that they were
growing old. Occasionally they had even forgotten that the destiny of
mankind might lie in their hands like a fragile flower to be preserved
or crushed.

But now came a moment six years one month and five days after their
departure from Earth. The sole planet of Sirius loomed green and blue
in the ship's magni-screen. The sight of the shining planet was like a
heavenly trumpet call, a signal for resurrection.

The inhabitants stirred, rubbed their eyes, and tried to exhume
forgotten hopes and memories from the lethargy of their minds....

       *       *       *       *       *

"What do you think?" asked Lieutenant Washington.

Captain Jeffrey Torkel, gaunt-faced and gray, stiffened his lean body.
At this moment all memory had left him, like a wind-tossed balloon
leaping out of his skull.

_It's happened again_, he thought. _I've forgotten. Oh God, why must I
keep forgetting?_

"Tell me what you think, Captain," said a balding, dark-skinned man
clad in khakis.

Captain Torkel stared at the blue-green, cloud-mottled image in the
screen. Where was he? Certainly not in South Dakota. Certainly not on a
field of golden, bristling wheat. No, he had the feeling that much time
had passed since those boyhood days on the Dakota farm.

He glanced at the strange man who had spoken to him. The balloon
snapped back into his skull. Memory returned.

_At least it wasn't gone for a week this time_, he thought. _Thank you,
God._

"You must be thinking _something_," persisted the man who had become
Lieutenant Washington.

The captain rubbed his gray stubble of beard. "I guess I'm thinking
that we're afraid and bewildered. We're not as full of strength and
hope as saviors of the race should be. Sure, what we find here today
will mean either life or death for the race. But the concept has been
with us for too long. It's already made us half-mad. And the same part
of our minds is afraid to hope lest it be disappointed. After all, the
planet might be radioactive or uninhabitable, or--"

"But, Lord, Captain! Even with the sub-spatial drive it's taken us six
years to get here. If there's a God who answers prayers, it's _got_ to
be a good planet. Sirius has only one planet. This is the last chance
left for the race. And look at it, Captain! The blue places must be
water and the green must be land. It's bigger than Earth, but it looks
almost like it!"

Captain Torkel nodded. "Whether it's good or bad, we still can't win,
really. If it's bad, humanity dies and we stay on the ship for the
rest of our lives. If it's good, we'll still be on it for twelve more
years--six years back to Earth and another six to return here."

Lieutenant Washington began to shake. "I don't know if I could take
twelve more years in space. Twelve years of eating and sleeping and
playing chess in the silence and nothing but darkness outside, and
trying to find a micro-movie we haven't seen a hundred times--all that,
over and over--" He closed his eyes. "I don't think the others could
take it either. They'd probably become like Kelly."

Kelly was the mad one.

"We have no other choice, Lieutenant. If the planet's habitable, we
have to take the news back."

The lieutenant shuddered. "I--I need a drink," he faltered. "I know. I
said I wasn't going to drink today. I'm not either. Not much. I want to
be on my feet when we hit that planet. But--excuse me, Captain."

Captain Torkel watched the gaunt officer stride to the aft compartment.
He suddenly realized that the lieutenant was bald. The top of his
Negroid skull shone like a dark egg. When had _that_ happened? Only a
short time ago, it seemed, the lieutenant had been a young man with
soft thick hair. _Those six years did it_, thought Captain Torkel,
_those six dark, silent, crazy years._

       *       *       *       *       *

The lieutenant returned a few seconds later, calmer now, reeking with
the stench of laboratory alcohol spilled on his jacket.

Captain Torkel, as always, pretended not to notice the stench.

"Captain," said Lieutenant Washington deeply.

"Yes?"

"Suppose the astrophysicists back on Earth were wrong. They said the
sun would blow up in exactly twelve years, two months and fifteen days.
How could they get it that close? Suppose this planet _is_ habitable,
suppose it _could_ be a new home for humanity. And suppose we start
back home with the news, and then the sun turns into a nova ahead of
schedule--say, in twelve years, two months and _three_ days, when we're
still a week away."

Captain Torkel swallowed hard. "We have to allow a margin for error, of
course. But I don't think those predictions will be off by more than a
day or two. After all, they've been corroborated in all the broadcasts
we've been able to pick up."

He smiled grimly. "So if the planet's habitable, we have to start back
to Earth almost at once. We can't allow ourselves more than a day to
rest and try to get the madness out of our systems."

"Oh, God," murmured Lieutenant Washington, closing his eyes.

"If we only had our transmitter," Captain Torkel mused, "we could stay
here. We wouldn't have to--"

"Damn him," interrupted the lieutenant, opening his eyes and clenching
his fists. "_Damn_ him!"

"Kelly?"

"Kelly. Why did he do it, Captain? Why did he throw every piece of
transmitting equipment over-board?"

"Maybe a part of his mind hated Earth. Maybe unconsciously he didn't
want to save humanity. Kelly's crazy. You can't account for the actions
of a crazy man."

Lieutenant Washington was shaking again. "And so we can't radio Earth
about what we find. If the planet's good, we have to tell Earth the
hard way--by traveling through space for six more years. Captain, I--I
think I'm going to have to get a dr--"

Footsteps sounded on the deck behind them. Van Gundy, the lean,
hawk-nosed jetman, rushed up to them. He was breathing heavily and
trembling.

"Captain, Fox stole my harmonica!"

Captain Torkel scowled. For a moment he forgot Van Gundy's name and who
the lean man was. Then he remembered.

"Stole your harmonica. Why?"

"He won't tell me. He's a thief, Captain. He's always stealing things.
You ought to--"

"Tell him I said for him to give it back to you. Tell him I said that."

"Yes, sir." Van Gundy clasped his trembling hands. "But that isn't all,
Captain. Garcia said if I got my harmonica back and kept playing it,
he'd kill me."

"Oh, God. Tell Garcia I said he couldn't."

"Yes, sir." Van Gundy turned toward the aft compartment, then spun
back, eyes blazing. "I won't let 'em scare me, Captain. If they don't
leave me alone. I'll kill _them_."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The men are like rotting trees," said Captain Torkel a few moments
later, "and you can't tell which way they'll fall. Fox steals. Van
Gundy is afraid of everything and everybody. Garcia keeps breaking
things and threatening violence. Someday he'll break a port, and
that'll be _it_. Finis."

Lieutenant Washington said, with a hiccough, "Too bad we didn't insist
on having a psychiatrist in the crew. Fox probably thinks he's been
cheated out of his youth, and unconsciously he's trying to steal it
back. Van Gundy has been knocked around so much that everything in the
universe is a source of terror to him. Garcia breaks things."

He laughed sourly, blowing hot alcoholic breath into the captain's
face. "And me, I'm a dipso who's no good to himself or anyone. You,
Captain ... sometimes I suspect that your memory isn't quite what it
use to be."

Captain Torkel scratched his stubbled chin. "Six psycho-specimens
trying to save humanity. How did we become so detestable? Are all
Earthmen like us?"

"Don't you remember?"

"Remember?"

"Yes. How when the U. N. announced about the blowup every interstellar
rocket and spaceman in the System was commissioned to discover
new worlds. Each ship was given a destination and an interstellar
ether-radio to send back its findings. Mechanics and technicians still
on Earth were put to work building new rockets to carry the race to its
future home--if one were found. We and the _Star Queen_ were at the
bottom of the barrel. The oldest ship; the crew that ordinarily would
have been grounded."

Captain Torkel murmured, "I remember. There were fourteen interstellar
ships then. Six cracked up smashing through the Einstein Barrier,
according to what we picked up on the ether receiver. The others
reached their destinations and not one found a habitable world. And
newer ships sent out later had no better luck. Now, all the nearest
star systems have been reached, and there isn't time for the ships to
go on to other systems. By an ugly little prank of Fate, we're Earth's
last chance."

He straightened. He pressed the warning buzzer and flicked on the
rocket's intercom.

"All hands to their crash-chairs," he intoned.


II

The crewmen appeared in the rear of the control room. Hesitantly, they
approached the massive, semicircular control panel with its hundred
flashing red and blue lights.

Fox was in the lead.

"Captain," the small-boned, brown-bearded radarman said solemnly, "can
we take a look before we belt down?"

"A short one."

The men looked.

Fox seemed ready to kiss the image of the planet. Van Gundy, wide-eyed,
trembled before it as if at any instant it might destroy him. Garcia,
the swarthy engineer, glowered at it as though threatening to crush it
like an eggshell.

"I want Kelly to see this," said Fox. He hurried aft, nervously
stroking his beard.

An instant later he returned, leading the former radioman by the hand.
Kelly's soft blue eyes stared vacantly out of a pink, cherubic face. He
was as plump as a dumpling, and his hair was as red as prairie fire.
His short body moved woodenly.

"Come on, Kelly," said Fox. "You got to see this. Nobody's going to
stop you from seeing this, by God."

The fire-haired man stood before the magni-screen.

Fox pointed. "See it?"

Kelly stared.

"He can't see it," rumbled Garcia. "He's crazy."

"Not too crazy to see this," Fox retorted.

Kelly's head bent forward. His lip quivered. "Home," he mumbled.

Fox jerked, eyes widening. "Hey, Kelly spoke! Did you hear that? He
spoke! First time in two years!"

"Home," Kelly mumbled again.

"No, not home," Fox explained. "It's the only planet of Sirius."

"Hell," said Garcia, "if it'll make him happier, let him think it's
Earth."

"No, it's the only planet of--"

"We can't be saying 'the only planet of Sirius' all the time. We got to
give it a name."

"Home," mumbled the madman.

"What kind of a name would _that_ be?" growled Garcia.

Captain Torkel said, patiently, "Kelly didn't mean that for a name. He
was just saying the word."

Fox cried, "Let's name it after Kelly. Kelly's Planet!"

Van Gundy stepped forward. He was trembling. His trembling seemed as
much a part of him as sight in his eyes. "No," he said.

"Why not?" snapped Fox.

"Because of what he did. He took the transmitter and--"

"We know all that. He couldn't help it. He's a schizophrenic. That
doesn't mean we can't name a world after him, does it?"

Garcia balled his hands into fists. "Fox is right. I say we call it
Kelly's Planet. How about it, Captain?"

"It's all right with me," said the captain.

"Then Kelly's Planet it is!" cried Fox.

"Strap down," Captain Torkel said. "This is it. We're going to land."

Then he said the words again in his mind: _This is it. This is the
world that will give death or life to humanity, madness or sanity to
us._

       *       *       *       *       *

The midnight blackness of space dissolved into gentle twilight as the
_Star Queen_ slid into the atmosphere of Kelly's Planet. The grumble of
the jets became audible and then swelled until it was like a rebirth of
the thunderous sound of an April takeoff more than six years ago.

Captain Torkel switched on the second layer of bow jets, braced
himself in his crash-chair. Despite the effects of the deceleration
compensator, his face was swollen and distorted. It was as if the soul
was bubbling out of his body.

He realized that he should have commenced deceleration some ninety
minutes ago. But he had forgotten.

The image of the planet broadened in the magni-screen. It filled the
screen, then seemed to spill out of it. Captain Torkel beheld an
expanse of blue which, in a silent explosion, was transformed into the
cerulean calm of a sea. The blue was swept away. The brownish gold
of mountains stabbed briefly upward, faded into the shadowy green of
rushing forest. Then came the glassy green of a meadow.

The _Star Queen_ paused, shaking with vibration. Its nose arched upward.

The _Star Queen_ landed with an almost imperceptible thump. The atomic
engines spluttered, coughed, died. The men unbuckled themselves, tested
their limbs, slid off their chairs. They moved to the portholes like
frightened old men treading on slippery ice.

They looked out.

       *       *       *       *       *

They stared for a long moment. "I don't believe it," said Fox at last.
"It's a mirage. We're still in space."

"It--it frightens me," stuttered Van Gundy. "There's death out there.
The air is poisonous. I feel it."

"We're crazy," Garcia spat. "As crazy as Kelly." His eyes widened. "Or
maybe we're dead. Could that be?"

"E--excuse me, Captain," said Lieutenant Washington. "I think I'll go
aft for a minute."

Captain Torkel said nothing. He had forgotten where he was. He was
nameless and lost, among strangers in a strange place.

But at this moment he somehow did not care. He was content to let his
hungry gaze absorb the rainbow beauty beyond the ports.

The meadow was like molten emerald stirring lazily in a slight breeze.
The meadow was spotted with flowers as large as a man's head, shaped
like teardrops, and shining purple and yellow and blue and crimson in
the light from a swollen, blood-red sun.

Some five hundred yards away on the rocket's starboard side rose a
towering green forest. In its shadow was a dark jungle of colossal
fern and twisted vines and more flowers. Beyond that, far away,
snow-cloaked mountains stretched their ponderous bulk into sea-blue
sky.

Captain Torkel returned his slow gaze to the interior of the strange
place in which he stood. He beheld a group of strange men doing strange
things.

A stern-looking man with tight lips and menacing eyes was looking up
from a litter of glass flasks and electronic devices. "Air twenty-nine
per cent oxygen--a bit higher than on Earth. Sixty-five per cent
nitrogen. Rest is a mixture of water vapor, CO2 and inert gases."

A small-boned man with a brown beard was saying, "Mass
point-eight-three. That and the increased oxygen should make us feel
like kids again."

A hawk-nosed man with trembling hands and a forehead glistening with
perspiration said, "Temperature sixty-four Fahrenheit. No harmful
radiation, pathogenic tests negative. Air pressure, eleven-point-three."

He pointed to an odd-looking flower and a tuft of grass in the window
of a metal, box-like chamber. "Flora shows the same oxygen-CO2 cycle as
on Earth. Only the flowers here seem edible."

The men looked at one another.

"Captain, is everything all right?" the brown-bearded man asked
anxiously.

Captain Torkel sensed that the strange men desired an affirmative
answer from him. "Yes," he said.

The brown-bearded man clapped his hands. "And we can go outside! How
about it, Captain? Can we go outside without our suits? Can we go out
now--please?"

_Click._

       *       *       *       *       *

Memory returned to Captain Torkel like water crashing out of a broken
dam and into a barren valley. He blinked and took a deep breath.

The three men before him became Garcia and Fox and Van Gundy. He saw
that Kelly was still strapped in his crash-chair. He did not see
Lieutenant Washington, but from the aft compartment came a faint
tinkling of glassware.

"Yes," he said, "we'll go outside. But first someone should go
alone--just in case. Who'll volunteer?"

"Not me," said Van Gundy. "You can't depend on those tests. There's
death out there. The whole human race will die out if it comes here."

"Why not let Kelly go?" asked Fox. "It's his planet."

"Sure," said Garcia. "If he dies, it'd serve him right, after what _he_
did."

Captain Torkel thought, _It may be a dangerous planet. The captain
ought to go first. He shouldn't send a madman to do a captain's job._

"Let Kelly go first," he said, hating himself.

Fox helped Kelly out of the crash-chair, pushed him to the airlock.

"Go on, Kelly. This is your planet. You'll be the first to set foot on
it."

Kelly did not move.

Fox pulled him to a port. "Look out there, Kelly. Damn it, don't keep
looking at your feet. Out there, out the port!"

Fox raised Kelly's head and brushed the red hair back from his eyes.

The madman looked.

"Heaven?" he whispered.

"Not Heaven. Kelly's Planet. Your planet, Kelly."

They pushed Kelly into the airlock. A minute later they saw him stumble
onto the green meadows. For eleven more minutes he stood silent and
motionless. Then he turned toward the rocket. Through the ports the men
saw his lips move.

"Heaven!" yelled Fox. "That's what he said! He said 'Heaven'!"


III

Captain Torkel and Fox and Garcia and Van Gundy stood beside Kelly.
Lieutenant Washington, too drunk to stand, sprawled in the grass.

They let the cool, clean air wash out their lungs like sweet perfume.
They took off their shoes. They dug their toes into the soft, silky
grass. They sniffed the poignant, spicy smell of the brilliant flowers.

Van Gundy, despite his trembling, played _Turkey in the Straw_ on his
harmonica. Captain Torkel did a dance like that of a Russian Cossack.
Lieutenant Washington, squatting like a dark Buddha and with his torso
swaying drunkenly, clapped his hands in time with the dance. Fox hummed
the tune, and even Kelly nodded his head rhythmically. Only Garcia
stood motionless.

"It's a good planet!" exclaimed Fox at last.

Van Gundy's trembling hand whacked spit out of his harmonica. His eyes
rolled fearfully toward the forest. "We don't know for sure yet."

"I think Fox is right," said Captain Torkel. "It _is_ a good planet.
Enjoy it, men. Breathe deeply. Smell those flowers. Feel the grass.
Because very soon we've got to start Earthward. We've got to store our
memories full of this beauty so it'll last for twelve years."

"Oh, God," sighed Fox. "Twelve years."

Garcia stepped forward, swelling his chest. Strangely, it seemed that
all the hatred had been drained out of him. "I was wrong," he said.
"We're not crazy and we're not dead. This planet is good. It's so good
that I'd like to stay here as long as I live."

"What?" asked Captain Torkel, blinking.

"I said I'd like to stay here as long as I live."

The words echoed in the still air. They were like evil seeds, falling
into fertile minds and sprouting.

"And not go back to Earth?" asked Fox, stroking his beard.

"And not go back to Earth."

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Torkel stiffened. "Get those thoughts out of your head, Garcia.
There are two billion people back on Earth. They'll die unless we tell
them about this planet. We've got wives, friends--"

"Not me," said Garcia sternly. "No wife and no friends."

Fox shrilled, "The only reason I volunteered for this trip was to
get away from my wife and that lousy New York apartment. You're not
married, are you, Captain?"

"N--no."

"Me neither," hiccoughed Lieutenant Washington. "Not many girls'll
marry spacemen."

"Kelly's married, though," mused Fox. "How about it, Kelly?"

"Heaven," mumbled Kelly.

Fox laughed. "Kelly means he wants to stay here."

Captain Torkel wiped perspiration from his upper lip with the back of
his hand. "We got to get these thoughts out of our minds. We're talking
like murderers. Garcia, think of the people you used to know. Think of
their faces. Imagine how it would be for them to die."

Garcia looked up into the sky, his features softening. "I can't
remember any faces, Captain. I can remember how the gulls used to fly
over the coast at Monterey and how the fishing boats used to bounce
over the waves. That's all. The gulls and the boats will be destroyed
anyway. We can't save those."

Captain Torkel turned to Fox. "_You_ remember faces, don't you, Fox?"

The little man shrugged. "They're like those crowd scenes we used to
see in movies--hundreds and thousands of faces all huddled together.
You really can't remember a single one. They're like shadows."

"But you remember your wife's face."

"I don't want to remember that. I might vomit. And I don't want to
remember that cheesy New York apartment either."

In desperation the captain turned to Van Gundy. "And you?"

"I--I remember the face of an old woman who sold flowers on O'Farrell
Street in Frisco. Stood there all year long, she did. In winter,
summer, spring, fall. I used to buy gardenias from her when I had a
date."

"Do you want her to die?"

"She was so old that she's probably dead by this time anyway. But
listen, Captain, I--I'm not sure yet that this planet--"

Captain Torkel whirled frantically to Lieutenant Washington, kicked him
lightly in the side. The lieutenant, apparently somewhat sobered by the
cool air, rose shakily.

"Lieutenant, _you_ remember the people of Earth. Can't you still see
their faces in your mind?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"The only face I remember," drawled Lieutenant Washington, "is my
Mom's. A good face, with a lot of work in it, but thin around the lips
and wrinkled around the eyes. It was a cold face, though. Mom was born
in Louisiana and then moved up to Maine as a girl. Her bones weren't
the kind to take those New England winters. So Mom slept, ate, lived
and died cold. Been dead now for eight years, and I think she's still
cold, even in her grave. I don't believe Mom'd mind one bit if the
Earth burns up. She'd be warm then. I think she'd like it."

"That's not the point," said Captain Torkel angrily. "The point is--"

Fox broke in: "What do _you_ remember, Captain?"

Captain Torkel swallowed hard. "Me? Why, I remember, I--" His mouth
remaining open, he scratched the back of his neck. His memories
suddenly vanished like puffs of smoke.

"Just like the rest of us!" burst Garcia, triumphantly.

"You know, Captain," said Fox, "if we didn't go back, the race wouldn't
have to roast. People would still escape in their emergency rockets."

"But they wouldn't know where to go. They'd float around a few years,
and then those flimsy mass-production ships would break up. Good Lord,
men, we've got to act like human beings!"

Garcia stepped forward. "Why don't we decide this later? Can't we relax
for a few hours, Captain?"

Lieutenant Washington nodded agreement. "He's right. You said yourself,
Captain, that if the planet was good we'd spend a day or so getting the
madness out of our systems."

"All right," murmured Captain Torkel, shoulders drooping. "We'll look
around some more."

They walked toward the forest. Fox led Kelly by the hand. Lieutenant
Washington advanced under his own power.

They saw trees five hundred feet high with brown trunks like twisted,
lumpy crullers and leaves like elephant ears of green velvet. From
smaller trees hung fruit that shimmered like golden snow as light
touched it. Here and there were clusters of scarlet berries as large as
apples, and chocolate-brown balls the size of coconuts.

"Don't touch 'em," said Van Gundy, trembling. "I'll bet they're deadly
poison."

"They look delicious," said Captain Torkel, stuffing three specimens in
his knapsack, "but we'll test them first."

Van Gundy screamed.

The others whirled to look at him.

Van Gundy, speechless, pointed with a trembling forefinger.

A brown, smiling face broke out of the fern foliage. Then another
appeared, and another and another.

A score or more of brown-skinned humanoids walked up to them.


IV

The Sirians were dressed in loin cloths as bright and multi-colored
as the tear-shaped meadow flowers. Their resemblance to Earthmen made
Captain Torkel gasp.

He could discern no appreciable difference save for the perfect
roundness of their dark eyes and a slight elongation of their ears.
Their flesh was golden tan.

"Well, hello!" said Captain Torkel.

The Sirians moved toward him, with such grace that they seemed not men
striding through the singing forest, but part of the living trees and
ferns and flowers.

"Hello," echoed the foremost Sirian, smiling. He was a young man, about
thirty by Earth standards, with long black hair and wide, muscular
shoulders. His handsome face reminded Captain Torkel of romantic Latin
heroes in the micro-movies aboard the _Star Queen_.

Captain Torkel pointed to the sky. "We come from up there, from another
world."

The Sirian's eyes were like black lights spearing into the captain's
skull. "Yes, you come from star. You are Star People. Where is your
star?"

"It's a long way--"

"Hey, he spoke in English!" cried Fox. "What the hell!"

"I--I'm going back to the rocket," stammered Van Gundy, shaking.

"Lord, I need a drink," murmured Lieutenant Washington, stepping back
with Van Gundy.

"Wait, all of you," Captain Torkel commanded them. To the Sirian he
said, "We know that Earthmen haven't been here before. How do you speak
our language?"

The young man's smile broadened. "Your mind is a fire sending out
warmth to us. Within the warmth I see sounds you use to make words."

"Telepathy," said Captain Torkel.

"Yes," the Sirian agreed. "And I see that your people are troubled.
They fear a strange thing--a coming of heat and light. Your world is
soon to be destroyed, yes?"

Suddenly the captain was afraid. The fear came to him in an invisible
cloud, settling over him, seeping into his flesh and chilling his
bones. He tried to believe that it was the senseless fear of a child
whose imagination has peopled the dark corners of his room with
nameless monsters. He tried to crush the fear, but it clung to him in
fog-cold intensity.

The Sirian nodded understandingly. "You must not worry now about the
coming of the great heat. You are tired. You must come with us to our
village. You must see how we live."

       *       *       *       *       *

The captain's legs were weak. He wanted to flee; he wanted to escape
from the Sirian's omnipresent smile and his round-eyed piercing gaze.

Van Gundy whispered to him, very softly, "Did you bring weapons,
Captain? Should we go without weapons?"

"I--I forgot about weapons," he whispered back, his face reddening.

Fox said anxiously, "How about it, Captain? Do we go with them?"

"I don't want to go," said Van Gundy, trembling. "Don't make me go,
Captain."

"I'll be damned if I'll go," muttered Garcia. "I'm going back to the
rocket."

Captain Torkel nodded. "You two can go back to the rocket."

Fox leaned forward. "The rest of us can go, can't we?"

Captain Torkel frowned at Fox and Lieutenant Washington and Kelly. The
fear was still in him, but he said softly, "All right, we'll go."

Garcia and Van Gundy ran back toward the _Star Queen_, white-faced,
shoulders hunched. Captain Torkel and Fox and Kelly and Lieutenant
Washington, led by the young Sirian, stumbled down a wide forest trail.
Other Sirians darted on either side of them and behind them, half
hidden by the thick foliage. They were like happy, dancing nymphs.
Every second or two the forest echoed their clear, melodious laughter.

"We forgot to introduce ourselves," Captain Torkel said to the Sirian.
"My name is Torkel, Captain Jeffrey Torkel."

"My name is Taaleeb," replied the Sirian.

"A pretty name. You are the leader of your people?"

The Sirian's smile gave way to uncertainty. "Leader--that is a strange
thought in your mind. We have no leaders."

"But you _must_ have leaders."

"Why?" asked the Sirian, his eyes wide. "We have no star-boat. We are
not going anyplace."

The captain cleared his throat. "We have leaders not only in our
rockets. We have them to help us make our laws, to supervise our work,
to guide us in the decisions of our living."

The Sirian laughed like a happy child. "Laws, work--more strange
thoughts. We do not have laws. We do not have work."

A scowl creased Captain Torkel's forehead. "But you _must_ do work of
some kind. What do you do all the time?"

"We pick fruit from the trees and make love and sing and sleep and lie
in the forest and make up poems. Is there anything else to do?"

"But when you build shelters or make clothes--_that_ is work."

Taaleeb laughed again. "No, no. Building a shelter or making clothes is
just building a shelter or making clothes."

They came to the village. It lay in circle of domes about eight feet
high that reflected the same shining colors as the meadow flowers.
Whether they were wooden, metallic or vegetable Captain Torkel could
not tell.

"This is where we live," said Taaleeb proudly.

Captain Torkel nodded.

Then he saw the women coming toward them.

       *       *       *       *       *

He felt the hair rise on the nape of his neck. For an instant he
thought he was going to fall backward. Somehow he caught himself and
managed to remain erect.

The women stood in a line in the center of the clearing as if gathered
to meet the Earthmen. Like the men, they were clad only in loin-cloths.
They were bronzed, sultry young goddesses.

The captain's gaze traveled over the nearest, a girl of perhaps twenty.
His gaze began with her midnight hair that cascaded to firm, round
breasts in a shower of black silk. It turned to her piquant, up-turned
nose and dimpled cheeks and pink, sensual mouth. It fell to the slim,
full body and the sweep of long, tanned thigh.

The girl smiled at him. Her eyes were like wells of interstellar space
silvered with sparkling stars.

He sat down on his haunches, too weak to stand. He'd almost forgotten
that women of flesh and blood existed. He'd almost begun to believe
that women were memories hidden in dark corners of his mind or
flickering images striding across a micro-movie screen.

"We have presents for you," the young Sirian said, smiling down at him.

Captain Torkel forced his eyes away from the girl. He saw that older
women and children were standing beside him, smiling, their arms filled
with strange containers.

"Wine for the Star People," said a white-haired woman. She seized a
golden flagon and filled golden cups held by children.

"Food for the Star People," said another.

More smiling women and children appeared carrying greenish, transparent
bowls filled with slices of a yellow, porous substance.

Taaleeb chuckled at Captain Torkel's hesitancy. "It is good food," he
said. "Everything is good. There is no end to food and no end to wine.
There is plenty for all."

Lieutenant Washington and Fox and Kelly squatted beside Captain Torkel,
accepting the strange bowls and the golden flagons.

Fox whispered, "Captain, shall we let Kelly test the food first? It
_could_ be poisonous."

"Let Kelly test it first," murmured Captain Torkel, hating himself
again.

Fox stuffed a slice of the yellow food into Kelly's mouth. The
fire-haired man gulped and blinked and grinned like a summer sunrise.

"Heaven," he mumbled.

Suddenly Captain Torkel froze. "Wait. Can't you see what these people
are trying to do? They can read our minds. They know that we'll
probably bring millions and millions of people to their planet, that
we'll probably overrun their civilization. They don't want us to go
back to Earth. They want us to stay here. They're just pretending--"

He stopped as he saw the bronzed form of Taaleeb towering above him.

"You are wrong," said the Sirian, and it seemed that his smile
faded ever so slightly, and a muscle in his cheek twitched almost
imperceptibly. "Your thoughts are not good. We will welcome the people
of your star--those who survive the long journey. We will be sorry to
see you leave so soon. You leave in one day, yes? Then we will try to
make your visit pleasant. Now, you must eat and drink. Be gay, my good
friends."

Captain Torkel grunted. Reluctantly, he tasted the yellow food. It was
delicious as a golden-brown fried chicken on Earth. His mood lightened.

He saw that it wouldn't be necessary to test the wine on Kelly.
Lieutenant Washington had already emptied his flagon. It was now being
refilled.

"Wine, Captain," said the smiling Sirian. "You must try our wine."

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Torkel cautiously raised the shining flagon to his lips. He
sipped. It was more than wine. It was a sparkling, bubbling nectar of
the gods. His throat and stomach glowed under its stimulating warmth.
An almost miraculous sense of peace and well-being flooded through his
body. It was as if he had become a god.

"More?" asked Taaleeb.

"Well--just a little."

Captain Torkel drank again. To Lieutenant Washington, he said, "I guess
I was wrong. The Sirians are fine people. They really do like us."

The lieutenant drained his golden flagon. "I'm sure of it."

"Me, too," said Fox, pouring more of the sparkling liquid into Kelly's
mouth. "I'd like to stay here always."

"Heaven," gurgled Kelly.

"You like the wine?" asked the smiling Sirian.

"Yes!"

"You relish our food?"

"Of course!"

"You are pleased with the daughters of our village?"

Captain Torkel shook with desire. "Quite pleased. They are beautiful."

"Each of you would like one of our daughters to stay with you during
your visit here?"

Captain Torkel gulped. There was a movement among the women as of wind
stirring through tall grass. The tall, lissome bodies stepped closer to
the Earthmen.

"I, er--"

"I think we would," said Fox, nodding eagerly.

"Then each of you may pick a companion," said Taaleeb. "Perhaps you
would like to select two for your friends who did not come to our
village."

Captain Torkel rose, swallowing hard. He bowed shakily to the girl
nearest him. "Would you--"

The girl smiled and stepped to his side.

Lieutenant Washington wiped perspiration from his bald head. He
pointed. "I'll take you," he said thickly. "And you two for Garcia and
Van Gundy."

"Garcia and Van Gundy may not want companions," said Captain Torkel.

"Don't be silly."

Eyes shining, Fox selected a tall, lean-faced girl. Then he pulled
Kelly forward. "Kelly, pick yourself out a companion."

Kelly belched.

"Pick out one of the girls, you idiot. Which one do you want?"

Kelly stared glassily at the waiting, watching figures.

"All."

"No, Kelly, you can't have them all. Just one. Pick out one. No, I'll
pick one out for you." Fox nodded at one of the girls. She laughed and
came to Kelly.

Captain Torkel downed the rest of his wine. "Now we'll return to the
rocket with our companions."

       *       *       *       *       *

Taaleeb cocked his head, widening his omnipresent smile. "But your
companions must wash and scent themselves and select the proper
clothing. They must make themselves ready. You will return here tonight
as the sun falls into the forest."

"Oh," said Captain Torkel, slumping. Then he shrugged. "We'll see you
tonight then."

His gaze turned to Fox. His mouth tightened.

"Fox," he said sternly.

"Hummm?"

"Put it back."

Fox's brows lifted innocently.

"Put back the cup. Take it out of your pocket."

Pouting like a disappointed child, Fox placed the stolen cup on the
ground.

"The bowl, too."

Fox's lips formed a silent curse. He put down the bowl that he'd hidden
under his armpit.

Taaleeb stepped forward. "No, this must not be. Your friend must keep
the cup and the bowl. Keep, please." He placed the objects in Fox's
hands. "There are our gifts to our friends." His eyes twinkled slyly.

"I say just one more thing," he went on, his suggestive gaze wandering
over the faces of the Earthmen. "It is such a pity that you think of
leaving us. If you would stay with us always, you would be not only
as friends to us, but also as gods. You would, if you wished, have
a different companion every night. Your stomachs would have all the
wine and food they could hold. We would build you a most big and most
pretty house. Your friend--" he nodded at Fox--"your friend could take
whatever his fingers desired. Your other friend--your thoughts call him
Garcia--could break whatever he wanted. Your other friend, whose name
I see as Van Gundy, would never have to be afraid again. Will you tell
these promises to your Garcia and your Van Gundy?"

"We'll tell them," said Fox, quickly.


V

They waved good-by and started down the forest trail.

They began to sing the first song that popped into their heads:

    Glory, glory, Hallelujah,
    Glory, glory, Hallelujah,
    Glory, glory, Hallelujah,
    His truth is marching on.

The glowing effect of the wine remained with them. Many times they
paused to nibble at the forest fruit and to throw themselves onto the
soft cushions of fern.

"It's a wonderful planet," declared Captain Torkel.

"Best in the universe," said Fox.

"All," mumbled Kelly.

"And it's a long way home," said Lieutenant Washington suggestively,
with a hiccough.

"A long, long way," commented Fox.

The lieutenant grumbled, "What did the people of Earth ever do for us?"

"Not a darned thing," said Fox. "Besides, I bet the sun has already
exploded. That's what I bet."

"That Sirian sounded like he meant what he said, didn't he?"

"Sure he meant it. We'd be like gods."

"Captain," said Lieutenant Washington. "There's no use arguing any
more. I'm going to stay here. To hell with Homo Sapiens!"

"To hell with Homo Sapiens!" repeated Fox.

The wine was still like hypnotic laughter in Captain Torkel's skull.
"I--I don't know. It'd be nice to stay--"

They came to an object lying in the soft green grass, not far from the
rocket.

"Hey, here's Van Gundy!" yelled Fox. "Van Gundy drank too much wine.
Van Gundy's drunk!" He laughed and coughed and swallowed and then held
his stomach and laughed again.

Lieutenant Washington began to sing:

    What shall we do with a drunken spaceman,
    What shall we do with--

"Shut up," said Captain Torkel, frowning. "Van Gundy wasn't with us.
He didn't drink any wine."

They stood over Van Gundy. The singing stopped and the laughter
stopped, and time, too, seemed to stop.

An ivory-handled knife was buried hilt-deep in Van Gundy's throat.

       *       *       *       *       *

They carried the dead man to the shadow beneath the starboard side of
the _Star Queen_. Each was a capped jug of solemn silence.

Captain Torkel withdrew the knife. "Van Gundy's," he muttered. "Van
Gundy was killed with his own knife."

He knelt and wiped his blood-smeared hands on the grass. Then he saw
Garcia squatting on the deck in the rocket's open airlock. A fan-nosed
flame pistol dangled from the engineer's loose hand.

Captain Torkel walked up to him.

"Give me the pistol, Garcia."

Garcia didn't answer. His eyes were black pin-points in his hard,
tight-lipped face. He raised the gun, leveled the barrel at the
captain's chest.

"Give me the pistol. That's an order."

Garcia's face was a dark cloud of hatred and savagery.

"Garcia! I'm your captain! Give me the gun!"

The animal savagery faded from Garcia's face. He lowered the pistol and
extended it by the barrel.

Captain Torkel moved forward and seized it. Then he puffed out his
cheeks, blew breath from them, wiped sweat from his forehead.

Fox shouted, "The ports, Captain! Look at 'em! Look at the ports!"

The heavy, transparalite portholes of the _Star Queen_ were ruthlessly
pitted and chipped. Little pools of broken, shiny plastic lay on the
grass beneath them. It was as if each port had been struck a hundred
times with an axe.

Captain Torkel and Lieutenant Washington and Fox closed in on Garcia
while Kelly stood smiling into the planet's sun.

"Did you do it, Garcia?" asked the captain. "Did you kill Van Gundy?"

Garcia still squatted on his haunches, dazed and staring. "I don't
know."

"Did you try to smash the ports? Did Van Gundy try to stop you? Is that
why you killed him?"

Garcia shook his head, bewildered.

"Why did you get the pistol?"

"I don't know."

"Did you and Van Gundy fight?"

No answer.

"Don't you remember anything?"

"I remember--" The engineer stopped, trembling.

"Yes, what do you remember?"

"I--I remember we decided not to go to the village, me and Van Gundy.
We started back to the rocket. Then--then I remember you saying for me
to give you the gun."

Fox said, "He's crazy, almost like Kelly. Whatever happened has made
him almost crazy."

"Try to remember, Garcia. We got to know what happened."

"I can't remember."

"Retrograde amnesia," said Lieutenant Washington.

Captain Torkel finally voiced the thought that had taunted him ever
since the discovery of Van Gundy. "Garcia, were the Sirians here? Did
_they_ kill Van Gundy?"

Garcia began to cry....

       *       *       *       *       *

They buried Van Gundy in the rich moist soil beneath the sea-blue sky
and the blood-red sun. They made a cross from the gnarled limbs of
forest trees and draped it with blue and yellow meadow flowers. In its
center they hung his harmonica and his jetman's medallion with its
silver-starred reproduction of the Big Dipper.

Captain Torkel spoke into the silence, and over the cool meadow flowed
the words, "... Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of
death...."

They put away the shovel. They gave Garcia a sedative and tucked him
into his bunk. They sat Kelly down in the grass and handed him a red
flower to play with.

Then Captain Torkel and Lieutenant Washington and Fox stood gazing into
each other's eyes.

"Say what you're thinking, Captain," said Lieutenant Washington.

Captain Torkel sighed. "All right. It adds up. The Sirians can read
our minds. They know we want to bring our race here. They'll do most
anything to stop us. They attacked the rocket, tried to break the
ports. Garcia and Van Gundy tried to stop them. Van Gundy got killed,
and Garcia scared them away with the pistol."

Lieutenant Washington squinted dubiously at the captain. "I can't
believe that. Why would they be so nice to us in the village?"

"To keep us there as long as possible. To keep us away from the rocket."

"They could have killed us in the village."

"Maybe they really don't want to kill us--unless they have to. Maybe
they'd rather persuade us not to return to Earth."

Fox grumbled, "You say maybe they don't like to kill. Then why would
they kill Van Gundy?"

"Van Gundy was killed with his own knife. That looks like self-defense."

Lieutenant Washington cleared his throat. "There's just one thing
wrong with your ideas. You say the Sirians are trying to bribe us into
staying here, trying to win us over by kindness. Now you say they
tried to smash the ports. If the Sirians are hostile in any way, they
wouldn't combine those two conflicting methods."

Captain Torkel was silent for a moment. "The Sirians are an alien race.
Leadership seems to be an unknown concept to them, even though Taaleeb
unconsciously assumed a kind of leadership this afternoon. The point is
that the race isn't used to carrying out unified plans of procedure.
Taaleeb might have used _his_ method in the village, and another group
might have hit upon the plan of destroying the rocket."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant Washington shook his head. "You're wrong, Captain. The
Sirians are good, innocent, child-like. Here's what happened: Garcia
liked to break things. He went wild and started to break the ports. Van
Gundy tried to stop him and got himself killed. The shock gave Garcia
amnesia."

Fox tugged at his beard. "I bet you're right, Lieutenant, I bet that's
it." Eagerness rose in his tone. "How about tonight? Are we still going
to see our companions?"

Captain Torkel spat. "You'd go to the village with Van Gundy's
grave-dirt still on your hands?"

"We've been in a grave for six years. Is there any difference?"

Captain Torkel ignored the question. "We _can't_ forget the people of
Earth!" he said suddenly. "We've got to start home now. Can't you see
what the Sirians are trying to do? They'll get us to stay here tonight,
then--"

Lieutenant Washington snapped, "I told you I made up my mind, Captain.
You want to give us six--no, twelve more years of darkness and
loneliness and frustration. We won't take it. We'd be as mad as Kelly."

"Right!" Fox slapped his fist into his open palm. "We've got no other
choice. We _got_ to stay here!"

Captain Torkel's mouth became a hard, gray line. He stepped back,
spread his legs apart, withdrew his flame-pistol. "Get in the rocket!"
he burst. "That's an order!"

Lieutenant Washington laughed contemptuously.

The captain repeated, "Get in the rocket! I'm your captain. So help me,
I'll--"

"You'll do nothing," spat the rock-faced lieutenant. "Can you
astrogate a rocket, Captain? Can you find your way back to Earth
alone? Can you keep those engines going without Garcia or dodge those
meteors without Fox? Go ahead and kill us. You might as well kill
yourself, too. How about it, Fox?"

"Right," said Fox.

"And you, Kelly?"

"All," murmured Kelly.

"This is mutiny!" screamed Captain Torkel. "You can't--"

"We already have. Now get the hell away from here, Captain."

Despair fell upon Captain Torkel. His head sagged. The flame-pistol
slipped from his fingers....


VI

The sun settled behind the forest horizon, its pale pink rays filtering
through the branches of trees and angling onto the cool meadow. The
glare was reflected by the silver rocket and by the cross above Van
Gundy's grave and by the small harmonica and the jetman's medallion.

Captain Torkel stood alone before the grave. Laughter drifted faintly
from within the rocket. It was a lonely sound to Captain Torkel.
_You're really alone now_, he thought. _Apart from Earth, and now apart
from the men. You and Van Gundy._

To hell with it, he thought bitterly. Why not join the men? Why not
bathe and shave and smell of lotion and put on a clean white dress
uniform? Why not forget about an insignificant planet fifty trillion
miles away?

He pivoted toward the rocket, toward the laughter and the happy,
getting-ready sounds. Then a small gust of wind sent Van Gundy's
medallion tinkling against the grave-cross.

He paused. Through his mind passed a swirling vision of the people of
Earth: the silent children too frightened to play in the sunlight, the
white-faced women scanning the callous sky, the grim-lipped priests
chanting ceaseless prayers. Two billion souls wrapped in a shroud of
fear, counting off the swift seconds that carried them closer and
closer to oblivion.

You can't force the men to go with you, he told himself. You can't make
them believe that the Sirians are dangerous. You've got to make them
_want_ to return to Earth. And once they get to the village, they're
lost. There's so little time....

He rubbed his chin. He was sure the Sirians had killed Van Gundy. If
only Garcia could remember--

Suddenly he straightened.

Perhaps it was a blessing that Garcia did _not_ remember!

Out of desperation that was like a prayer, a plan arose in his brain.
It expanded and crystallized, then faded as memory slipped away like
a rock under rising water. For a few moments he was a boy on a Dakota
wheat farm, staring down at a strange grave.

Then the water receded; the rock remained. He was again Captain Torkel
and the plan lay like an opened flower in his thoughts.

_Please, God, don't let me forget now. Let me keep my memory for a
while longer, just a little while longer._

His hand tight about his pistol, he strode across the meadow and
plunged into the singing forest.

Rays from the sinking sun penetrated the foliage at intervals, creating
islands of rainbow brilliance in the semi-darkness. Leaves fluttered
above him. An orange-colored bird darted upward, releasing a cackle
that was like shrill, old-woman laughter.

He moved slowly, hesitating, listening.

Soon he heard the low voices of Sirians. He stepped off the forest
path, concealing himself in foliage. He tried to clear his mind so that
the natives would not receive a telepathic warning.

The Sirians came nearer.

Captain Torkel counted: one, two, three, four, five. The first, he saw,
was Taaleeb.

Perfect, he thought. _Thank you, God._

He stepped out of the foliage.

Taaleeb's features broke into a smile. "Good evening, our friend from
Earth-Star. We come to escort you back to our--"

The smile died. Alarm flooded his face.

Captain Torkel raised the pistol. "That won't be necessary. There's
been a change in plan."

The Sirian's dark gaze speared into his skull. "Yes, I see," he
murmured....

       *       *       *       *       *

A few minutes later Captain Torkel returned to the meadow, the five
scowling Sirians herded before him. Each carried an uprooted grapevine.

"You know what to do?" he asked, brandishing the pistol.

"Your mind has told us," said Taaleeb sullenly.

"I don't like to kill--no more than your people wanted to kill Van
Gundy. But, like you, I will if I have to."

It seemed strange to Captain Torkel to see a snarl on Taaleeb's
handsome features.

"You know everything," the Sirian muttered. "Your mind has guessed how
we think and what we have done. Yet you are a fool. You could have had
all I promised you--wine, food, happy nights!"

"But the others--the ones who stoned the rocket--would they have let
you keep that promise?"

Taaleeb digested the question for a moment. "Perhaps not. And perhaps
those others were wiser than Taaleeb. I see now that we should have
killed you. I am sorry we did not--but perhaps even now it is not too
late." His eyes were like dark, hot fires.

They walked across the meadow. The darkness was deepening, crawling
like a hand over Van Gundy's grave.

"The pistol will be in my pocket," Captain Torkel cautioned his
captives, "but it will be ready."

The Sirians nodded.

"And one more thing. _Smile._"

The Sirians smiled.

They reached the _Star Queen_ just as Lieutenant Washington and Fox
and Kelly were stepping out of the airlock. Garcia stood behind them,
sleepy-eyed, yawning off the effects of his sedative. The men stared
first at the Sirians, then at Captain Torkel.

Lieutenant Washington said, threateningly, "Get out of here, Captain.
We've made our decision."

"No," said Captain Torkel. "I'm going to join you. I'm going to the
village, too."

"Hey!" exclaimed Fox. "He's going with us. Atta boy, Captain!"

"_Why?_" asked the stern-faced lieutenant.

"Because we won't have to return to Earth--not even if we wanted to.
The Sirians are going in our place."

Garcia frowned. "Are you crazy, Captain?"

"No, I was just wrong about the Sirians, Garcia. They're good people,
just like the lieutenant said. They like us. They want to help our
people--and they're going to take the _Star Queen_ back to Earth."

       *       *       *       *       *

"That's impossible," spat Lieutenant Washington. "They're simple
natives. They're ignorant. They couldn't astrogate that ship."

_Of course not_, thought the captain. _No more than we could sprout
wings and fly back to Earth._

He fought to keep his tone calm, convincing. "Why can't they? They're
telepaths. They've gotten all our knowledge from our minds. They can
be just as good in space as we are--maybe better. And they'll save
humanity. Right. Taaleeb?"

"Right," said Taaleeb, smiling.

"Wonderful!" said Fox, clapping his hands. "Let's go to the village."

"But they haven't the intelligence," protested Lieutenant Washington.
"Captain, I think you're--"

"Look at the way they've learned to talk our language. Doesn't that
indicate an extremely high intelligence?"

"That's right," agreed Fox. "It does, Lieutenant. Let's go, Captain.
Ready?"

Garcia edged forward, blinking the drowsiness from his eyes. "How about
Van Gundy, Captain? Who killed Van Gundy?"

Captain Torkel started to speak. The lie stuck in his throat. He
telepathed, _You tell him, Taaleeb. You tell him the lie._

Taaleeb said, "You killed him, friend Garcia. We have looked into your
mind. We see what happened. You began to break the portholes. Friend
Van Gundy tried to stop you. He had knife, you took knife. You killed
him. You took the flame-weapon because you were afraid of what friend
captain might do."

Garcia groaned. "God. Is that right, Captain? Is that what happened?
I--I can't remember."

"I'm afraid so," sighed the captain. To himself, he said, _And I pray
you never remember._

Then he saw Taaleeb glancing anxiously toward the forest. How strong
was the Sirian telepathic sense? Strong enough to send to the village
for help?

His fingers were hot and moist on the pistol in his pocket. He
struggled to put down the rising anxiety that threatened to overwhelm
him.

"Taaleeb," he said, "better have your men take the vines aboard."

"Yes," said Taaleeb, smiling. The Sirians carried the vines to the
airlock, laid them within.

"What's the idea of that?" asked Lieutenant Washington.

"It was their idea," the captain lied. "Those vines will grow rapidly
in our hydroponics tanks. They'll produce something like a bottle of
wine for each of them once a month. That'll be something to make their
trip a little more pleasant. And _that_ shows they're intelligent,
doesn't it?"

He motioned toward the rocket. "The Sirians want to leave for Earth
now, men. Get whatever gear you want out of the ship."

"They're leaving _now_?" asked Fox.

"Of course. Tell them why, Taaleeb."

The Sirian said, "Because, as your friend captain says, we must allow a
margin for error. Your sun may explode a day or two or three before the
predicted time. Even if it does not, we wish to see your world as much
as possible before its death."

       *       *       *       *       *

Fox and Garcia started to enter the airlock.

"Wait," said Lieutenant Washington. "I don't think I like this."

Captain Torkel's heart pounded. _This may be it_, he thought. "What do
you mean?" he asked.

"I mean, these Sirians will be heroes to humanity, won't they?"

"I suppose so."

"And they'll return here with our race, or what's left of it, in twelve
years?"

"Yes, God willing."

"Then what will our people think of _us_? What will they _do_ to us?"

_This is it_, the captain told himself. He could feel blood pulsing
through his temples like drumbeats. "They won't like us for what we're
doing. That's a cinch. But there's no other solution. You wouldn't want
the Sirians _not_ to go, would you?"

The lieutenant slowly shook his head. "No. Of course not."

"No," chorused Fox and Garcia weakly.

The lieutenant snapped, almost accusingly, "Then we'd be exiles from
our own people. They'd call us traitors."

"Who cares?" said Fox.

"_I_ care," grumbled the lieutenant.

Captain Torkel turned to Garcia. "How do you feel about this? Would you
care?"

Garcia wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. "I wouldn't care
about _that_. To hell with it. But--"

"Yes?"

"I'm not sure if I like the idea of someone else doing my job for me.
I'm a good engineer. I'm forty years old, and no one's ever had to do
my job for me."

The captain pursed his lips. "Well, I suppose you two could relieve two
of the Sirians and go to Earth while Fox and Kelly and I stay here."

Lieutenant Washington snorted, "You've changed, Captain. You used to be
so damned anxious to get back to Earth. What's happened to you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The captain pretended to be in deep thought. "I suppose it's because it
was hard for me to make that decision not to go back to Earth. When I
did make it, it was a solid decision, one not easily changed. Besides,
you said yourself that we couldn't take another six or twelve years in
space, that we'd go mad."

"But it's different now. We've gotten some of the madness out of us. I
haven't had a drink since this afternoon. Garcia's got rid of some of
his hatred. Maybe killing Van Gundy was like a kind of shock treatment
to him. And Fox--"

"He's right," Fox interrupted him. "I'm going to stay here. Don't try
to talk me out of that. But I feel _cleaner_ inside. I guess when you
know that nobody'll stop you from stealing, you lose desire."

"Even Kelly's better," said the lieutenant. "Look at the way he's been
talking."

Captain Torkel nodded. "Yes, and my memory's been better these past
few hours. You know, men, I _do_ keep thinking of what Taaleeb said.
He said he wanted to see as much as possible of our world before its
death. If those predictions should turn out right, we'd have a whole
week to spend on Earth. I could see Dakota again, see the wheat and the
sky and the hills."

Lieutenant Washington mused "And I could fly down to Louisiana, take
a look at Maine, too. Maybe put some flowers on Mom's grave, make her
ready to become warm again."

Garcia said wistfully, "And we could see Monterey and the boats and
listen to the gulls. And maybe that old flower peddler Van Gundy knew
is still in Frisco. I bet Van Gundy'd like us to find out." He began to
laugh almost hysterically.

"I'm going to stay here," declared Fox, "but we never thought of that
week, did we? We kept thinking of being in space for twelve unbroken
years. It wouldn't be that way at all."

Captain Torkel asked, "Wouldn't you like to see Broadway again, Fox?
I'll bet they'll have it all lit up, all shining and proud and full of
life. Wouldn't you, Fox?"

Fox gulped. Even in the gathering darkness, the captain saw tears in
his eyes. "I--yes, Captain. I guess I would."

"And your wife, Fox?"

Fox wiped his eyes. "I don't know." Then he jerked backward. "I just
thought of something. My wife'll be _here_ in twelve years. She'll make
the journey all right, make it if she has to take a rocket by herself
and hold it together with hairpins. She'll locate me, too. When she
finds out what I've--"

Fox suddenly stood very straight and heroic. "Captain, I'm going back
to Earth--right now."

"And I," said Lieutenant Washington deeply.

"I _want_ to go," said Garcia, his voice cracking, "but I'm a murderer.
You don't want a murderer with you, do you?"

Captain Torkel glanced nervously toward the forest. He wasn't sure, but
he thought he saw faint reflections of lights, and voices.

"We need you, Garcia. You've got to take care of those engines. We'll
have a trial. Court is now in session. How do you plead?"

"I--"

"Guilty. Okay. Sentence suspended. Let's get aboard."

He kept his hand in his pocket, tight about the pistol. To Taaleeb he
said, "Thanks, friend, but I guess we won't need your help after all."
He shot out the thought: _Keep smiling, fellow. Keep smiling until the
very last second._

Fox slapped Kelly's face to gain his attention. "Kelly, we're going
back to Earth. We're going home, back where your wife is. You want to
come along or stay here alone?"

"Alone?"

"Alone."

"Kelly, Kelly--"

"Where, Kelly? To the village or to Earth? Damn you, say it!"

"Kelly go--Earth."

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Torkel leaned back in his crash-chair. The rocket shook under
the vibration of thundering atomic engines. He flicked a switch.
Acceleration began.

"Brace yourselves, men! Earth, here we come!"

Before the rising acceleration froze his movements, he snapped on the
starboard visi-screen.

He stared only for a second.

He stared at the mass of Sirians filtering out of the dark forest,
their sleek bodies illumined by the crimson glare from the jets and by
the trembling fires from their torches.

They were like red devils, their faces contorted in rage and hatred
as they poured over the meadow. Captain Torkel shivered at the sight
of the knives, stones, clubs in upraised hands, at the savage mouths
spitting forth alien oaths. This was what mankind would meet when the
refugee ships began to land, twelve years hence.... But they had
twelve years to decide what to do about it.

Then the image was swept away in space like a red stone falling into
the depths of a black pool.

Captain Torkel turned off the screen. Acceleration pushed him deeper
and deeper into his chair.

Soon the thunder of the jets faded, and there was silence. The
blackness of space pushed itself against the ports. Captain Torkel cut
the engines.

"Beautiful Louisiana," said Lieutenant Washington in low, reverent
tones, "and lovely Maine."

"Good old Broadway."

"And the gulls and boats at Monterey."

"And North Dakota."

"Heaven," mumbled Kelly.


END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of To Save Earth, by Edward W. Ludwig

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TO SAVE EARTH ***

***** This file should be named 53059.txt or 53059.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/3/0/5/53059/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

